Capital Gains Tax When Selling a
Home Owned Less Than Two Years.
When selling a home you have
owned for less than two years,
capital gains tax may apply.
This is general information only
and not legal or financial advice.
Consult a CPA or attorney for
guidance specific to your situation.
Capital gains is the profit you make
after subtracting what you paid for the
home, plus improvements and selling costs.
The IRS has a rule that lets you
avoid this tax if you owned and
lived in the home for at least
two of the last five years.
If you sell before meeting that rule,
the exclusion usually does not apply.
If you owned the home for less
than one year, the profit is
taxed like regular income.
If you owned it for more than one
year but less than two, it is taxed
at long-term capital gains rates.
Texas does not have a state income
tax, but federal taxes may still apply.
In some cases, a partial tax break may
be available for job changes, health
issues, or other unexpected events.
Talking with a tax professional
or attorney before selling
is always a smart move.